# Secure-Organ-Donation

Languages Used: NodeJS, ReactJS, Solidity

Organ donation requires utmost security, fairness and direct communication between the concerned parties in a sense that no third party is involved in between so that there is no scope of tampering and foul-play. 
Traditional contracts between two parties often have the involvement of a third party. In Organ Donation it is clear that the requirement was to ensure Organ donation and consequent transplant matches happen in a fair and secure way. As it is obvious, it requires a contract between two parties. So, to avoid the involvement of any third party and achieve a secure transaction Smart Contracts is the way forward. In this project we have made a Smart Contract using Ethereum Blockchain using solidity language. A contract is just a codified version of the conditions mentioned in the contract. 
We have taken Donor and Recipient details such as their ethereum addresses, age, organ to be donated or received, blood group and the Rh factor, which is essential in organ transplants. The contract is linked to the respective Metamask accounts by truffle-hdwallet-provider of which the addresses were provided. All the transactions that take place are reflected in the metamask. Metamask is an extension for accessing applications enabled by Ethereum. In conventional methods, Ethereum’s Remix framework is used to automatically compile and deploy the contracts, however, we have done it on our own by writing codes for it using various dependencies like web3, truffle, etc. The contract is first compiled in compile.js file which provides us with the bytecode and the ABI. The contract bytecode is deployed on the Rinkeby Test Network through a different deploy.js file. After the contract is successfully deployed the contract address is obtained. The deployed contract status can be checked on https://rinkeby.etherscan.io/ . This way all the transactions take place in metamask using test ethers. 
Further, to make the contract interactive we have used ReactJS to create a frontend wherein organ details can be added. Web3 is used to interact with the contract through React frontend. However the main focus is on Contract creation, its compilation and deployment on the network.
